---
inject-note: true
---

# Generate Alerts

## Introduction

An alert is a message that notifies you when a particular audit event happens on a target database. In Oracle Data Safe, you can provision alert policies on your target databases, view and manage alerts, view alert reports, and create your own alert reports.

Start by reviewing the available alert policies provided by Oracle Data Safe, and then provision one of them. Review the alerts generated by the policy and close an alert. Lastly, generate and download a PDF alerts report.

Estimated Lab Time: 20 minutes

### Objectives

In this lab, you will:

- Review the Oracle Data Safe alert policies
- Provision an alert policy on your target database
- Review the generated alerts based on the enabled alert policy
- View details for an alert and close it
- Generate and download an alerts report in PDF format

### Prerequisites

This lab assumes you have:

- Obtained an Oracle Cloud account and signed in to the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Console
- Prepared your environment for this workshop (see [Prepare Your Environment](?lab=prepare-environment)). It's important that Activity Auditing is enabled on your target database, and that you have permissions in Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Identity and Access Management (IAM) to use the Alerts feature in Oracle Data Safe.
- Registered your Autonomous Database with Oracle Data Safe and loaded sample data into it (see [Register an Autonomous Database](?lab=register-autonomous-database))
- Started audit data collection on your target database (see [Audit Database Activity](?lab=audit-database-activity))
- Accessed Security Center


### Assumptions

- Your data values are most likely different than those shown in the screenshots.

## Task 1: Review the Oracle Data Safe alert policies

1. In Security Center, click **Alerts**. The **Alerts** page is displayed.

2. Under **Related Resources**, click **Alert Policies**.

3. Review the list of available alert policies in Oracle Data Safe. You can provision the following alert policies on your target database:

    - Audit Policy Changes
    - Database Parameter Changes
    - Database Schema Changes
    - Failed Logins by Admin User
    - Profile Changes
    - User Creation/Modification
    - User Entitlement Changes

4. Click the **User Creation/Modification** alert policy to view its details. The **User Creation/Modification** page is displayed.

5. Click **View List** to view the target databases associated with the alert policy. The **Target-Policy Associations** page is displayed.

    - The **Policy Name** filter on the left is automatically set to the alert policy name, which in this case is **User Creation/Modification**.
    - Because you have not yet associated the alert policy with any target database, there are no list items.


## Task 2: Provision an alert policy on your target database

1. Click **Apply Policy**. The **Apply And Enable Alert Policy To Target Databases** panel is displayed.

2. Select **Selected Targets Only**.

3. If needed, click **Change Compartment** and select your compartment.

4. From the drop-down list, select your target database.

5. Select **Selected Policies Only**.

6. Select the **User Creation/Modification** alert policy.

7. Click **Apply Policy**. The alert policies are applied while the panel is open.

8. Wait until the message Apply "Profile Changes" on <your target database name> is displayed and has the status **Done**.

9. Click **Close**.

10. Refresh the **Target-Policy Associations** page and verify that the **User Creation/Modification** alert policy is now enabled on your target database.



## Task 3: Review the generated alerts based on the enabled alert policy

1. Under **Related Resources**, click **Reports**.

2. In the Report Name column on the right, click the **All Alerts** report.

3. At the top of the page, create the following two filters. To add a filter, click **+ Another Filter**. When you are done setting the filter parameters, click **Apply**.

    - **Target = your-target-database-name**
    - **Alert Name = User Creation/Modification**

4. Review the alerts generated for **User Creation/Modification**.


## Task 4: View details for an alert and close it

1. Click one of the alerts to view its details.

2. Review the following information about the alert:

    - Alert name (instance of the alert)
    - Target database to which the alert applies
    - Alert severity
    - Alert status - Whether the alert is open or closed
    - Alert type - Currently all alert types are AUDITING
    - Policy that generated the alert
    - User operation that generated the alert
    - Operation status
    - When the alert was created and updated
    - Oracle Cloud Identifier (OCID) for the alert
    - Compartment in which the alert resides
    - Operation details

3. To close the alert, click **Close**.


## Task 5: Generate and download an alerts report in PDF format

1. In the breadcrumb, click **All Alerts**.

2. Click **Generate PDF/XLS Report**. The **Generate Report** dialog box is displayed.

3. Select **PDF**.

4. Enter **User Creation/Modification Alerts for <your target database name>**.

5. (Optional) Enter a description.

6. Select your compartment.

7. Click **Generate Report** and wait until the report is generated. A message is displayed stating that the report generation is complete.

8. In the **Generate Report** dialog box next to **To download report please**, click the **click here** link. A dialog box is displayed providing you options to open or save the document.

9. Save the report to your local computer.

10. Open the PDF report and view it.



## Learn More

- [Alerts Overview](https://www.oracle.com/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/cloud/paas/data-safe&id=UDSCS-GUID-37F8AC38-44D4-42D1-AE93-9775DCF21511)


## Acknowledgements

* **Author** - Jody Glover, Consulting User Assistance Developer, Database Development
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Jody Glover, February 11, 2022
