# Introduction

## About this Workshop

Profitability is defined as the cash balance or amount left from revenue after subtracting all expenses like operating expenses, employee salary etc. This Profitability Management Analytics Workshop analyzes KPIs like Operating Income, Operating Expenses, Revenue Generated by Region, Comparison of OPEX YTD vs Previous Year, Forecast Status, Comparison of T&E vs Previous Year vs Budget through a rich set of visualizations.

Estimated Lab Time: 1 Hour.

### Objectives

* Learn how to connect a desktop analytics tool to the powerful Autonomous Database
* Learn how to connect to the database using SQL Developer
* Learn how to create a data visualization with Oracle Analytics Desktop

### Prerequisites

* Obtain an Oracle Cloud account
* Provision and access to an Autonomous database instance
* Install Oracle Analytics Desktop (free with Autonomous Data Warehouse). If you already have Oracle Analytics Desktop installed, please check the version. The recommended version is 5.5.0 or greater, to connect to your Oracle Autonomous Database.
 
*This is the "fold" - below items are collapsed by default*

## **STEP 1**: title

## **STEP 2:** title

## Learn More

## Acknowledgements
* **Author** - <Name, Title, Group>
* **Adapted for Cloud by** -  <Name, Group> -- optional
* **Last Updated By/Date** - <Name, Group, Month Year>
* **Workshop (or Lab) Expiry Date** - <Month Year> -- optional, use this when you are using a Pre-Authorized Request (PAR) URL to an object in Oracle Object Store.

## See an issue?
Please submit feedback using this [form](https://apexapps.oracle.com/pls/apex/f?p=133:1:::::P1_FEEDBACK:1). Please include the *workshop name*, *lab* and *step* in your request.  If you don't see the workshop name listed, please enter it manually. If you would like for us to follow up with you, enter your email in the *Feedback Comments* section.
